Update collaboration mode docs (#7864)
Unleash/unleash: website/docs/reference/project-collaboration-mode.md

title: Project Collaboration Mode
---

:::note Availability

**Plan**: [Enterprise](https://www.getunleash.io/pricing) | **Version**: `4.22+`

:::

# Overview

Project collaboration modes allow you to manage project visibility and interaction levels, ensuring better control and collaboration within your organization.

> The collaboration mode of a [project](projects.md) defines who within your Unleash instance can access the project. This setting also determines who can submit [change requests](change-requests.md)–a feature that provides controlled and secure updates for feature toggles.

Reviewer: Couple small things:
1. We're working the docs (and everything else) towards "flags" instead of "toggles" (you've probably heard this by now, but just in case you haven't), so let's stick with that going forward.

2. Should we use spaces around hyphens/em-dashes that are used for interjections or not? I think I've always preferred using spaces, especially because people don't tend to differentiate between hyphens and em-dashes, so leaving out the spaces can technically cause some ambiguity (though it's probably not an issue). Honestly no strong feelings on this, just wanna align; your call.

3. I'm not sure about the description of change requests there. Is it necessary? And more importantly: is that the right way to describe them? It kinda sounds like marketing lingo, to me, which feels weird in the docs. But let's talk about it 💁🏼 
 
```suggestion
The collaboration mode of a [project](projects.md) defines who within your Unleash instance can access the project. This setting also determines who can submit [change requests](change-requests.md) – a feature that provides controlled and secure updates for feature flags.
```

Reviewer: 1. Of course!
2. Understood! I'll try to keep that in mind for the next time I write something with dashes.
3. That's a good point. I think my issue is that "controlled and secure updates for feature flags" sounds like something that belongs on a marketing website to me. It doesn't really tell me anything about the feature. At least it feels like fluff to **me**. But you might not agree, and it's your decision in the end, so it's entirely up to you. I've voiced my opinion, I'm very happy to be overruled 💁🏼

> Unleash supports three collaboration modes: **open**, **protected**, and **private**. The [predefined root and project roles](rbac.md#predefined-roles), as well as [custom root roles](rbac.md#custom-root-roles) of a user, determine what projects they can access.

Reviewer: Maybe consider restructuring the sentence here, so that "user" shows up earlier? I think it'd make it easier to understand what roles we're talking about (at least I was a little confused when reading this at first).

Maybe something like this? 

```suggestion
Unleash supports three collaboration modes: **open**, **protected**, and **private**. A user's [predefined root and project roles](rbac.md#predefined-roles), as well as their [custom root roles](rbac.md#custom-root-roles), determine what projects they can access.
```

## Open collaboration mode

All users of your Unleash instance can access the project and submit change requests. This is the default collaboration mode.

## Protected collaboration mode

All users of your Unleash instance can access the project but only Admins and project Members can submit change requests.

## Private collaboration mode

> Only project Members, Admins, Editors, and users with [custom root roles](rbac.md#custom-root-roles) can access the project. Only Admins and project Members can submit change requests. 

Reviewer: Do we need to differentiate between seeing and accessing a project here?

When it says only some users can "access" a project, that doesn't read to me like it's necessarily hidden from other users, which is a core part of the functionality here. Maybe we should clarify that the project is also hidden from viewers?

Author: Thanks I agree, I'll go for view everywhere

> |           | View project                                                                                    | Submit change requests     |

Reviewer: Should we not have a heading for the mode?

```suggestion
| Mode      | View project                                                                                    | Submit change requests     |
```

Also, in preceding paragraphs, we talk about "accessing" the project. Here it's about "viewing" the project. What's the difference? Maybe we should align on one or the other?

|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------|
| Open      | All users                                                                                       | All users                  |
| Protected | All users                                                                                       | Project Members and Admins |
| Private   | Project Members, Admins, Editors, and users with [custom root roles](rbac.md#custom-root-roles) | Project Members and Admins |

# Set project collaboration mode

To [create a new project](projects.md#create-a-project) with a specific collaboration mode, do the following:
1. In the Unleash Admin UI, go to **Projects** > **New project**.
2. Enter **Project name**.
3. Click **Open** to choose your collaboration mode.

> 4. Click **Create project**.

Reviewer: Here's a question for the style guide: do we use words like "click"? Click is exclusively a mouse gesture. People who navigate by keyboards or touch screens don't "click" things. I believe I've seen style guides that discourages use of mouse-specific terminology because it's not inclusive of other ways to navigate the website. Do you have any thoughts around this?

Author: I'm not sure I've ever come across a good term that was truly inclusive of all different kinds of devices/ navigation approaches. Do you know of one? For me, one that comes close is _select_, but I prefer to reserve it for dropdowns.

So I think it's okay to continue using _click_ for now. I think it remains a deeply ingrained term that is widely recognizable and understood by most users.

For general UI documentation stuff, I would stick to this [style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/ui-elements), unless we find that it doesn't work well for us.

Reviewer: Nah, I haven't heard any good ones. "Interact" comes up, but "Interact with the create project button" is both long, and ... can be kinda confusing.

But thanks for the link and for picking a style guide. I'm glad to have a definitive answer for this so I don't have to wonder anymore 😄

## Modify project collaboration mode

To modify the collaboration mode of an existing project, do the following:
1. In the Unleash Admin UI, go to **Projects** and select the project you want to modify.
2. Go to **Project settings > Enterprise settings** and use the **Project collaboration mode** list to update your collaboration mode.
3. Click **Save changes**.

### Change collaboration mode to protected

> When you change the collaboration mode of an existing project to protected, all users who do not have sufficient permissions lose the ability to create new change requests. Existing change requests remain in place. Users with insufficient permissions can still cancel their change requests but can no longer update them.

Reviewer: This is a great clarification 🙌🏼

title: Project Collaboration Mode
---

:::note Availability

**Plan**: [Enterprise](https://www.getunleash.io/pricing) | **Version**: `4.22+`

:::

# Overview

Project collaboration modes allow you to manage project visibility and interaction levels, ensuring better control and collaboration within your organization.

The collaboration mode of a [project](../reference/projects.md) defines who within your Unleash instance can access the project. This setting also determines who can submit [change requests](../reference/change-requests.md)–a feature that provides controlled and secure updates for feature toggles.

Unleash supports three collaboration modes: **open**, **protected**, and **private**. Each mode is designed with different user roles and permissions in mind, catering to various security and collaboration requirements. Let’s explore how the three modes work.

## Open collaboration mode

> All users of your Unleash instance can access the project and submit change requests. This is the default collaboration mode.

Author: Still need to update this based on final clarification

## Protected collaboration mode

All users of your Unleash instance can access the project but only admins and project members can submit change requests.

## Private collaboration mode

> All project members can access the project and submit change requests. Outside of project members, only admins, editors, and users with [custom root roles](../how-to/how-to-create-and-assign-custom-root-roles.md) can access the project and submit change requests.

Reviewer 2: Just a minor comment. It will read better if there is no negative(outside of) in text. Something like
#
All project members, as well as admins, editors, and users with [custom root roles](https://github.com/Unleash/unleash/pull/how-to/how-to-create-and-assign-custom-root-roles.md), can access the project and submit change requests. Non-members do not have access.

Author: Thanks! What custom root role would allow you to access a private project?

Reviewer 2: Any custom root role.

Author: Sorry, I meant what root permission would that role need to have? I can't see any permissions related to viewing private projects or submitting change requests.

Reviewer 3: There's no permission to submitting change request: you need to be either be an admin or a project member.

| Collaboration Mode | View project    | Submit change requests                                                                                                        |
|--------------------|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Open               | All users       | All users                                                                                                                     |

> | Protected          | All users       | Project members, Admins, Editors, and users with [custom root roles](../how-to/how-to-create-and-assign-custom-root-roles.md) |

Reviewer 3: I don't think that Editors can submit change requests in the protected mode.

Author: Verified that Thomas as an Editor cannot submit change requests
